Varicose veins are enlarged, bumpy,
twisty veins visible through your skin.
Varicose veins usually develop in your legs and feet
when the valves in your veins don't work like they should.
This causes blood to flow
backward in your veins,
instead of going to your heart.
Spider veins are like varicose veins
and are visible through the skin,
but are smaller twisted red, blue or purple vessels.
Sclerotherapy is a procedure that causes
spider or varicose veins to disappear over time.
Before sclerotherapy, you may
need to avoid certain medicines.
Talk with your doctor about all medicines
including over-the-counter drugs,
herbs, and dietary supplements
you are taking before the procedure.
During sclerotherapy, a solution is injected
through a very fine needle directly into your vein.
The solution causes your vein to collapse,
shrink, and eventually disappear
as your body naturally absorbs it.
Sclerotherapy is an outpaitent procedure
and usually takes 15 to 45 minutes,
allowing you to return home on the same day.
Ask your doctor if sclerotherapy is right for you.